---
title: Chili
layout: post
body: archive-page
description: This is my favorite chili recipe. I like to experiment with different types of beans and I always add a bottle of good, strong American IPA for a great flavor. 
prep: 20 minute
cook: 2 hours
categories: soups
---

## Ingredients
- 2 lbs ground beef
- 1 28oz. can of crushed tomatoes
- 1 yellow onion diced small
- 4 cloves of garlic minced
- 1 red bell pepper diced small
- 1 green bell pepper diced small
- 1 jalapeño seeds removed and finely diced
- 1 can black beans drained and rinsed
- 1 can of red kidney beans drained and rinsed
- 1 small bag of frozen corn
- 1 bottle of IPA (I usually use Sierra Nevada)
- 1 TBspn ground cumin
- 1 TBspn chili powder
- 1 Tspn ground coriander
- 1-2 TBspn Cholula hot sauce
- 1/2 Tspn cayenne pepper (more if you like it spicy)

## Method
1. In a large soup pot or dutch oven brown the ground beef. Work in batches if necessary. Once all of the meat is browned, remove from the pot and set aside.
2. Using some of the left-over oil from the meat, add the onion, garlic, bell peppers, and jalapeño and sauté for 5–7 minutes stirring frequently.
3. When the vegetables have started to sweat, add the ground beef back to the pot, and then add the beans, crushed tomatoes, corn, and lastly the bottle of beer.
4. Add the cumin, chili powder, coriander, cayenne, Cholula, and stir to combine everything.
5. Bring to a simmer then reduce to medium-low and simmer covered for 1–2 hours. As long as you keep the heat low enough you could really simmer this all day and it would taste great, but if you are in a rush one hour is plenty.

## Serving Tips
I like to set out some shredded cheese and sour cream to put on top of the chili. If you want to get a bit fancy you could have some diced onion and cilantro, or make some cornbread to go with it.