---
title: Pisto
description: The Spanish version of ratatouille—this dish is simple and delicious. It's a classic in our house.
prep: 5-10 minutes
cook: 40 minutes
ingredients:
  - 2 small zucchini sliced thin
  - 2 small yellow squash sliced thin
  - 1 14.5oz. can of diced tomatoes
  - 1 yellow onion sliced thin
  - 4 cloves of garlic minced
  - 4 roasted piquillo peppers (optional)
  - small bunch of fresh parsley
  - 4-5 eggs
  - 1 cup of water
  - 1 Tspn sugar
  - 3 TBspn olive oil
  - Salt and _LOTS_ of black pepper
tags:
  - recipes
  - vegetarian
---
## Method
1. Heat the olive oil in a medium sauté pan on medium heat. Once the oil is hot add the onion and cook for 5-8 minutes. It's ok if the onion starts to brown and caramelize a little. This will add a little extra sweetness, which is a good thing.
2. Add the garlic and cook with the onions and oil until it starts to get soft, but not brown. Keep an eye on the heat at this point.
3. Once the garlic gets soft add the zucchini, yellow squash, tomatoes, and the piquillo peppers if you are using them. Piquillos are pretty easy to find in most super-markets now. They are usually in the italian section.
4. Stir everything thoroughly to combine, fill the tomato can with water and add to the pan, and then sprinkle the sugar over top. Stir one more time and bring everything to a simmer.
5. Simmer uncovered for 30-40 minutes. If the mixture gets too dry too quick, just add more water. Eventually everything will get really soft. At the end, use the back of your wooden spoon to smash the mixture against the edge of the pan a little so that everything comes together really well. At this point add the fresh-cracked black pepper. By adding it at the end of cooking you get a lot of fresh pepper flavor and heat, it's one of the things that really makes the dish.
6. Use a spoon to make 4 or 5 wells in the pisto and crack the eggs in each. And sprinkle more pepper on top. At this point you could throw a lid on the skillet and cook until the whites of the eggs harden up. I like to throw the skillet underneath the broiler of the oven for about 5 minutes or so, just until the whites firm up and the yolks as super-runny.

## Serving Tips
The best way to eat this dish is with a good loaf of french bread or baguette to mop up all the juices and runny egg. Oh, and make sure to have good bottle of red wine around to drink with it.