---
title: Mapo Ragù
description: This is adaptation of a NY Times recipe from Sam Sifton which is in turn an adaptation of a recipe by Tien Ho and David Chang from their restaurant Momofuku Ssam Bar
prep: 20 minutes
cook: 40 minutes
illo: mapo-ragu-illo-web.png
ingredients:
  - 1 lb. Ground pork
  - 2 onions peeled and sliced thin
  - 4 cloves of garlic minced
  - 1 thumb-sized fresh ginger peeled and minced
  - 3 tablespoons gochujang
  - 1-2 tablespoons soy sauce
  - 1 tablespoon brown sugar
  - 1 bunch of kale roughly chopped
  - 4-6 scallions thinly sliced
  - 2-4 tablespoons neutral oil (like canola)
  - Jasmine rice for serving
tags:
  - recipes
  - asian
---
## About
This is adaptation of a NY Times recipe from Sam Sifton which is in turn an adaptation of a recipe by Tien Ho and David Chang from their restaurant Momofuku Ssam Bar. It's one of our family favorites. I usually make a double batch becuase it makes for great left-over lunches through the week. The original recipe can be found [here on the New York Times cooking site](https://cooking.nytimes.com/recipes/1018404-mapo-ragu).

## Method
1. Cook enough Jasmine rice for your needs, plus some for leftovers.
1. Heat two tablespoons of the oil in a wok on medium-high heat until it starts to shimmer. Add the onions and a pinch of salt then cook the onions for about 10 minutes until they have released their moisture and are starting to brown. Turn the heat down to low and continue to cook until they have turned golden brown and caramelized. This should take 10–15 more minutes.
1. Remove the onions from the wok and set aside on a plate. Add the pork to the wok and cook breaking it up with a spoon until it is cooked through and no pink remains. Remove from the wok and set aside with the cooked onions.
1. Add another 1-2 tablespoons of oil to the wok and then cook the garlic and ginger until softened, but not brown. Add the gochujang, brown sugar, and soy sauce along with one cup of water. Stir the ingredients together to form a sauce then return the pork and onions to the wok and combine with the sauce.
1. Bring the sauce to a simmer and then add the chopped kale stirring well to combine. Simmer the whole mixture for around 5 minutes or until the kale has softened.
1. Garnish with sliced scallions and serve in bowls with rice.

## Notes
This is a go-to family favorite in our house. I like to make a double batch and eat for quick lunches through the week—it almost gets better as the week goes on. If you like things a little more spicy you can add an extra tablespoon or two of gochujang.